---
layout: post
title: On why I'm glad I started my career at GE
---

As an Economics and English major at a [small liberal arts college in New England](http://www.holycross.edu/), I thought my options for a practical career were relatively bleak. My math major roommate Deirdre spent a large part of her undergraduate career studying topics like cryptography and computer science, while I lost myself in Arthurian romances and pondered the residual implications of colonialism and cultural hybridity in Western Africa. There hadn’t been an ounce of practicality in my college pursuits (this would later become a theme in my life) until I heard about GE’s [Financial Management Program](http://www.ge.com/careers/culture/university-students/financial-management-program/united-states), from an upperclassman in Intro to Microeconomics.

Suddenly, a world of possibility opened in my mind. FMP sounded alluring and impressive, and everyone knew GE. Even the words “corporate finance” carried a sense of passage, one that would steward me from university to responsible adulthood. **I’d learn how the world works.** I would pay taxes and invest in stocks and learn exactly what all the hullabaloo was around mortgage-backed securities. Clearly, my limited exposure to finance engendered very romantic, very wrong expectations of what was to come.

That first day of the first rotation, like the first day of *every* rotation thereafter, was full of momentum and promise. You just couldn’t help but feel encouraged; while the goals you were supposed to achieve overwhelmed you individually, they inspired you in aggregate, as you chomped at the bit to make the impact you were going to have on a business and a team you wanted so badly to believe in. And just as quickly as the fading summer sun gives way to a biting autumn air, that feeling would yield to the realities of life on program.

There were a lot of Powerpoint decks. And a lot of archaic software tools, supposedly built for scale. And so many Excel spreadsheets passed down from one FMP to the next. Like old hand-me-downs, some of these files were reusable, others no longer relevant; but all were digital patchworks that represented a historical trace of FMPs past.

In some of the better roles, you’d get to create a lot of the processes and set the standard for everyone that would come after you. You’d create that template that you’d nicely — then later, not so nicely — ask the P&Ls to fill out before every weekly FP&A meeting. And those slides! You’d proudly send out those slides that you slaved over to the team in Asia, Europe, and MEA a month in advance… only to find that they’d eventually miss your deadline, despite your 3 reminder emails with step-by-step instructions sent the week before.

You’d be deliberately brought into the room when your boss had tough conversations with other teammates because of “how happy you always are,” and you’d resent it when he finally told you that was why. Initially. Sometimes, you’d report directly to an Executive, and sometimes you’d report to a Senior Analyst, and you’d learn to appreciate people at all levels of an organizational hierarchy. You’d be humbled the first time your numbers didn’t tie in front of a CFO, and you’d make sure you never had to learn that lesson again.

You’d marvel at how much easier it was to get up in the morning when you cared about your coworkers from India, and Peru, and Mexico, and Germany, and UK, and Belgium, and Ireland, and France, and everywhere in between. You’d surround yourself with other program members — in the beginning, for friendship and, in the end, for survival. You’d stand alone in a corner as the sole “Expressive”, diagonal from everyone else who were “Drivers” during a physical distribution of the “[4 Social Styles](http://www.tracomcorp.com/solutions/by-element/social-style/model/),” red with embarrassment, but also proud. And you’d feel reassured, graduating from that program knowing that no matter what life threw your way or what city or country you landed in next, you’d eventually find homeostasis again.

While I’d be lying if I said I never considered quitting FMP halfway through, I’m immensely grateful that I stuck it out, and I thank my lucky stars every day that [Pete Mondani](https://www.linkedin.com/pub/peter-mondani/8/226/9ba) gave this impractical English major a shot. Beyond the world-class analytical training that I received, and the brilliant people I worked alongside, and the unparalleled exposure to globalization I got, and the *endless* acronyms I’d acquired that I later learned meant absolutely nothing to anyone outside of GE, more than anything, those two years taught me accountability, compassion, humility, and resilience. I discovered the deeper parts of who I am and the kind of leader I was designed to be. I gained a powerful sense of clarity that has only since propelled me forward and, for that, I owe my entire career to this company.

I was convinced that this corporate finance program was going to teach me how the world worked. And it did.
